Enkyall strobed with light. An organism through the waters and tall spires emanated these signals. While not it was not something comprehended, they were a significant part of the various biomes. Though each component of the organism was separate, every spire, spawn, and the sentinel was apart and acted as one organism. This series of signals now said something new. This wound was fresh.

It existed between components and waves of light and observed. The atmospheric phenomenon violated the projections it had used to survive. Temperatures dropped outside viable parameters for many of its defensive bodies. Winds had exceeded the stress levels for its land-based communicative structures.

Components of the organism observed two detrimental data points. Migratory patterns went observed in this wounded sector. This would leave its food unchecked; the potential to expand beyond manageable means was eminent. The data indicated prey would expand and deplete the biome. After too few cycles the optimal efficiency will decline in this region.

Already it observed predatory creatures of flight expand down from their limited polar region. More still leaps of predatory terrestrial creatures have been forced from the north due to their juvenile stages die-off. The conditions further south were optimal for an exponential expansion of these creatures. These invasive changes would kill off portions of the fauna and alter flows of nutrient runoff into the waters.

The organism calculated among itself the optimal calibration. Population management of the fauna was critical at this junction. Any chemical signals of the food source must be eliminated. Contamination and infestation must be prevented in the polar region.



Paws grasped through the wide-spaced branches, mouth closed in a concerted effort. Pressure built in sacs behind its ears before it released it in its song. Fingers nimbly gripped and leveraged the lithe body up silently.

It looked up and the baru-rog scanned the foliage above it. Its grey-blue eyes sought after food for its young. Its drum-like ears sat and listened for the chamberous resonance of the meat. Many small hearts beat. The mother adjusted its song. Small shrill resonances could be heard in the distance hungering.

Up high sitting below the foliage of the tree was the nest. Thin boned meat flitted around it. The baru-rog continued its climb unobserved. Its approach was near when the sky darkened. This was not the shadow of a sky predator. It was too large. This was not the approaching of its sleep. It did not conform to its natural cycle.

The thin boned meat not in the nest fell from the air. White clouds emanated from its nose instead of the sky. Its membrane hurt as it never had before. Hearts slowed in the nest. The mother's eyes widened in alarm. Its dappled coat of feathers rose. She needed to return to her cubs.

Stalking set aside it leapt up and caught the nest in its mouth. Its body twisted with the food and feet padded into the ground many lengths down.



Her young were dead. Even she failed to let out her sorrowful keening. Her alpha though, who had sired many of her cubs, could be heard many lengths away.

The sky was still dark as though the way of turnings had changed. Her alpha called for her leap to gather. Many of the males let out their keenings and snapped their teeth as clouds rose from their mouths as well. A moving rose through her and she scented her males to follow.

Many other leaps could be heard across the territories. Their young would not survive here. Their prey would not feed their cubs. It was an agreement normally made before the first fall of clouds or changing of males. They would move their territories and not vie for dominance.

Scented by their females, the baru-rog made their way south. It was many more lengths than they were accustomed to, but the cold sank deep for many turns. Instead of the sparse forests of their normal territories, these were thickened with underbrush and thorns. Through their travels they kept their ears tuned for the sounds of the large hard-shelled hunters. These they avoided. Instead, they made their territories lengths opposite a large fountain of warm air.

Food was difficult at first. Their preys were fast rather slow fat prey and the thin boned nests stationary in trees. They changed their songs and their hunts improved. After many turns, they adjusted. Many territories branched off and sought a place of their own.



They hunted. It was the time of the falling clouds and they were forced to range far outside their normal territory. Food had grown sparse the last several turnings. Even the normally plentiful thin boned nests were hunted.

The female of this leap scented a new prey. They smelled of sickness and fear. She sang. These were slow. She was not close enough to hear their echos so they continued.

It was just a few turns until they came upon the first of the new prey.



We departed our enslavement, eyes feeble.  Mewling for drink, we cast our maws into the sea.  We swam, others drank deep.  We arose.  

We departed the waters, youth hungered.  Hunting for meat, we cast our feet into the open.  Other things hungered.  Of us all had teeth.  For the kin ours were sharp.  Of our bodies there were sharp teeth.

Apart the storm, 
Falls one.
Departs the sky, 
A stone.
Against the ground,
I dash.